>> Kyle Simpson: Pulling in inputs from
standard end or from the parameters,
that's pretty good.
But we also can get inputs into
our program in one other way
which is through the use
of environment variables.
This is again one of those ones that may
change a little bit depending on if you're
using a Linux or
Mac system versus a Windows system.
But in Linux or Mac, if you want
to set an environment variable,
it's kind of like setting
a global variable.
It's a variable that would be
automatically available to a program.
But if you wanna do it
on a per command basis,
you basically just prefix something.
So if i said HELLO=WORLD, and
then I said ./ex1.js,
>> Kyle Simpson: That
would set an environment variable for
my shell environment called
HELLO with the value WORLD,
but only for this command.
And then it goes away.
So it's like creating an environment.
Now these are typically used to
configure a development versus
a production environment or
paths or things like that.
But there's a lot of different ways
that you might wanna take a program and
being able to configure it through
the usage of environment variables.
So what we're gonna do if I run that,
nothing, it doesn't see that but
we're gonna make our program be able
to see and use that information.
So what I'm going to
do is I'll do it here.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm
gonna say if process.env.
And then the properties
on this one will be
the environment variables that have been
set including the one that we just set.
So if there's a process.env.HELLO,
we wanna go ahead and print that out.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's
see what happens now.
You'll notice that it did in fact find and
print out our environment variable there.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we can use this for,
in this particular case,
we're gonna use it for
configuring a base file path.
Okay, so I'm gonna say
that our BASE_PATH.
And we want a default base path to
underscore underscore dirname unless this
process environment has been set,
in which case we'll use it.
So we're gonna say,
>> Kyle Simpson: We're
gonna use path.resolve, and
we're gonna use either,
>> Kyle Simpson: The process.env.BASE_PATH
or if that one hasn't been set,
then we're just gonna use _ _ dirname.
>> Kyle Simpson: Armed
with that information,
we're gonna change our
usage of path.resolve here.
So instead of saying path.resolve,
we're gonna use a different
one that's called path.join.
path.join will take any number of inputs,
and
use the appropriate directory
separator for your platform.
So on Linux or Mac,
it will use the forward slash, on Windows,
it'll use the backslash.
It'll do any other kind of
escaping it needs to do.
So here, we can just say,
path.join(BASE_PATH) with our args.file.
>> Kyle Simpson: That'll allow us to
assume dirname unless we override it with
an environment variable, and that tells
us to find it from somewhere else.
>> Kyle Simpson: So let's use BASE_PATH.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
let's say files/ because that's the one
we've already been grabbing stuff from.
And now let's use --file=, and
we can just say hello.txt.
Because it's going to know to look for
it in this configured base path.